you lose 80% of your business in 8 weeks
and I knew there were questions is this
the end of Airbnb will Airbnb exist
Brian tesy founder and CEO of the100
billion company Airbnb one of the most
successful and most disruptive companies
in the world airb and breakfast was just
a way to keep paying rent before we came
up with the big idea we did not think
airb and breakfast would be a company
where 4 million people a night would use
don't focus on the mountain top focus on
the first step a lot of breakthrough
ideas don't seem breakthrough at the
time they seem crazy people tend to
overestimate what they can do in a year
and underestimate what they can do in 10
years 10 years is a profoundly long
period of time if you're disciplined and
focused and you can have a small idea a
small dream and you can build something
vast Airbnb is going to IPO and then
disha to strikes in the Corona virus
emergency stay at home stay at home you
lose 80% of your business in 8 weeks and
I knew
there were questions is this the end of
Airbnb will Airbnb exist we had to make
some incredibly difficult decisions so I
write this letter to the entire
company here's what I
said it's a hard for you to read that
yeah yeah no now I get a little
emotional reading
that
why
[Music]
Brian I'm a fan believer
that our external world can change and
evolve and look different but it tends
to be the case that our internal world
is much more stubborn which is who we
are at our core and I also believe that
who we are at our core is of in shaped
by our earliest experiences that's been
supported by a lot of the psychologists
I've sat here with to understand you the
way you think and who you are I think
it's best to First understand that early
experience and how it shaped the
internal
Brian that remains regardless of how
everything else in your life has changed
well yeah thank you for having me on I
um I came from a pretty normal
non-descript background but in parallel
to sports and all the regular things
kids had I had this other interest and
it was a thing that most defined me and
that was that I was an artist
I would be drawing and drawing and I
have these pads of paper and I go
hundreds and hundreds of pages almost
compulsively drawing um both trying to
learn how to mimic an environment and
reproduce it in reality and when I was
you know 10 I could probably draw like
an adult and by the time I was in high
school I could you know draw like you
know probably akin to a professional
artist I love design worlds I wanted to
design and escape and at the age of 17 I
I decide I'm going to design design
school so I've already taken like a
hundred opportunities in life and now
I'm like okay I'm going to do this I'm
not going to be like a politician a
doctor a lawyer a astronaut I'm going to
be some an artist or designer halfway
through freshman year they have to they
tell you to declare a major what kind of
artist and designer I'm like I'm still
17 and I got to tell you what type of
artist and designer this guy comes in
and he pitches an apartment called
industrial design it just sounded cool
industrial design and I was like what is
industrial design and I remember him
saying something like industrial design
is the design of everything from a
toothbrush to a spaceship and everything
in between to design a physical object
you have to understand three dimensions
you can't just design an object you have
to understand how to make the object if
you were a graph designer you didn't
really have to know how to make anything
guess you have to know how to print it
but you had to know manufacturing what
kind of materials is it are the
materials sustainable where do you
manufacture it well how much is it going
to cost because like how much is going
to cost like has implications on how you
design it well how much it's going to
cost depends on who is the audience how
are you going to Market it you see when
an architect designs the building no one
like blames the architect if the office
building doesn't get leased out but in
industrial design you can't design a
product it not sell and you say it was a
good design I would have never imagined
that would have come to you
to run a tech company it turns out
industrial design was one of the best
educations to run a tech company but I
had no idea I was going to do that I'm G
to walk back through that because
there's couple of words you said across
the way that really stuck out to me the
first word you said when you were
talking about wanting to design design
your own worlds is I was trying to
design a world that I could escape to
yes the use of the word Escape is quite
a intentional but quite a um strong word
what were you trying to
escape a great
question I think I was a very sensitive
child I think I was a very idealistic
child
and I think I was trying
to escape what might one might describe
as
the the numerous challenges of childhood
I think childhood is really hard for
people and I think for me especially
like I was young small undersized I had
trouble fitting in at school I remember
just having a really intense
environment and I remember when I was a
kid I would watch like the uh like the
ABC where like they were like a dis
Disney you know they had this thing
called The Wonderful World of Disney and
I would see these old videos of Walt
Disney on television from the ' 80s but
it was from him in the 60s and he
described these like magical worlds I
was just so obsessed with designing a
world that was different and better than
the one I was in I just think I had a
lot of kind of
anxiousness as a
kid and I never
really I I didn't really feel like I was
at home you know I felt like I was I was
searching for home and I I there's this
great Bob Dylan quote he said it took me
a long time to find my way home and I
think it did for me as well I feel like
I never found my way home until I was
surrounded at school with other
creatives but other before that I was
just it's kind of an outsider and things
were very challenging and
painful so am I right in thinking that
your desire to design a new world was
also a desire to design a home where you
might fit 100% if you if you design the
world as well you get to control the
world and you get
to
I I think I want to design a world that
I could live in that I could fit into
because I probably didn't think I fit
quite into the world that I grew up in
absolutely that's 100% the case you you
said in some of your interviews that you
are a hyperactive child hyperactive
impulsive um difficulty concentrating I
was never diagnosed with
ADHD maybe today if I was growing up
somebody might have may may have said
that but I don't know but I had an
intense energy I was I was always trying
to do things differently I remember like
in junior like Middle School I would try
to like redesign the school curriculum
or something like just kind of
interesting frankly kind of bizarre
things I was was a bit of a performer I
wasn't into acting or anything but I did
a lot of like public speaking and I
would do a lot of creative writing but I
remember I always was like I was always
different and different wasn't good
growing up that was maybe the core thing
I think the core thing is I was
different I was different in almost
every
way and different wasn't good I sat here
with a therapist and she said to me
there's two things at a very human level
she's I mean her clients are royalty and
CEOs at the top of the world and
athletes and gold medalists she says all
my clients come to me with two one of
two things and it's usually both either
they don't believe they're enough or
they feel like they're different and
those two things really haunt people in
a world you know we we're tribal animals
as you know from I've watched airbnb's
IPO video and this idea of connection
really coming through strongly we want
to belong we want to be in our tribes
and feeling like you're different I was
thinking about this through the lens of
a tribe means that I don't belong in the
tribe feeling like I'm not enough means
I'm not valuable to the tribe 100% and
those and that and I would think though
both of those identified I felt like my
entire
life many people have like turned to
addiction and if I turned to one was
work and luckily my addiction was very
productive and so no one ever called it
that like no one says that somebody's
working all day and night especially if
they're doing something creative if
you're an access to entrepreneur and it
was mostly I mostly
was made me happy but the challenge is
that if you are doing something hoping
to become something hoping you become
something and then therefore you're
going to feel certain way because people
are going to treat you certain way it
turned out that what I wanted was love
and what I was actually retracting with
agulation and so the problem is we try
to seek conditional love we do something
great we get noticed and then people
show us love and admiration but it's
probably not love admiration is probably
agulation and agulation I think is like
a cup with a hole at the bottom and the
problem is you fill up the cup but then
something leaks out the bottom and so it
kind of comes down and down and down you
have to keep filling it and keep filling
it and keep filling it and the problem
is that like anything you can't just do
keep doing the same actx you must do
even bigger axe you have to go bigger to
get the feeling you had before I think
this is
incredibly typical of people like I know
Tech entrepreneurs where a lot of them
were had Challen with authority didn't
fit in wanted to be loved and were
really good at something and it's not to
take away any of that but just to know
where it comes from now that I know what
it where it comes from I've been able to
have a much healthier relationship with
it I still love what I do but I now it's
really interesting my motivations have
gone more internal more intrinsic
instead of wanting to be super
successful to feel a certain way part of
me says why I not felt that way I
probably never will and I you know if I
no amount of additional status or money
or anything is going to make me feel
good better because this amount hasn't
actually changed how I feel it turns out
that like when you're when you go on a
rocket ship you initially the success
and the status and everything makes you
initially probably happier because it's
new there's a novelty and it's
distracting and at some point you adapt
to it and the moment of adaptation is
the moment you probably go back to
reverting to the way you felt before all
of it you're not worse but you're
presumably not better life is so much
more than just climbing a ladder and
getting to the top and realizing you're
not much higher than you ever were
before that the world is you you had
everything inside of yourself mostly to
be happy before the journey started and
probably what you needed most is purpose
you have that health and relationships
and I think that you know a lot of
people take the last one for granted
those relationships and that's that's
kind of that's kind of probably been my
journey the cost of your addiction to
work in hindsight you can maybe point at
the cost and say this was something I
sacrificed at the expense of happiness
because of that addiction to my work
what are those things let me first say
that like it it was mostly worth it yeah
and so I want to be clear about that
that I wouldn't have done it
dramatically different I am let me just
say I
am it it's like the the Journey of
Airbnb of being able to build Airbnb has
been unbelievable it's been the great
joy of my lifetime and if people could
experience what I had experien I would
say to them it would be the most
unbelievable ride of a lifetime and I
wouldn't want to change a ton because
it's been amazing but if they're about
somebody's listening and they're about
to go on this journey I would forar them
about some things that no one told me
and no no one told me when I started
this journey is two things the first
thing is how lonely it would be and it
doesn't have to be but it's almost like
by default you see when I started ARB I
started with my friends to my friends
then we hired people and those people
there were employees but they were also
kind of our friends and this notion that
I was the boss there was a power and
balance well we're all like broke at a
three bedroom apartment so what does it
mean that I'm CEO like that's kind of
just a title and so I felt really
connected we weren't a family but we
were more like a family than a business
if if it was one of the other and then
as we got successful then it became more
of a corporation there was a chain of
command there were more boundaries you
know like you you started hiring people
that had families and people families
don't hang out with you on nights and
weekends and then like you know you know
it's just like it becomes more formal
and that's the moment that your
employees become your employees and less
your friends and that gets more and more
isolating and then people start looking
at you a little bit differently and it's
it feels really good but you can just
find yourself working more and more to
live up to the responsibility and you
feel like you're never working enough
and you're working 60 hours a week then
80 hours a week and 100 hours a week and
you just almost feel guilty any second
you're alive and you're not working and
I again I'm huge proporn it and pouring
your life into something but I think
that what thought was every incremental
hour would make me more productive but
it what turns out that like we need to
step away from work we need to be happy
we need to have some healthy
relationships to probably make good
decisions I don't lonely leaders are
probably not the best leaders and when
you're lonely you're probably less
empathetic your sense of vigilance is up
um you don't necessarily see problems
really clearly you don't have people to
bounce ideas off of when there's a
challenge it can feel like you're alone
you don't have as much resilience
and so I remember going from being
incredibly happy to feeling incredibly
isolated not having been prepared now I
was prepared for all the business
challenges people told me what it's like
to scale a team hire Executives but we
weren't really well prepared for the
psychological and emotional Journey that
we would go on that turned out to be
some incredibly intense Journey so that
was the first thing the first thing that
I didn't know no one forewarned me about
and that I've now learned is about the
lonely Journey can be and I would just
tell people it doesn't have to be lonely
keep in touch with your friends meet
other entrepreneurs like you've got to
almost fight the world as you go on this
journey is going to isolate you into a
bubble that's going to completely detach
you from reality and if you're not
careful you can lose a sense of yourself
and you have to fight every single day
like a person in the ocean without a
without a the life jacket just staying
above water and that staying above water
is fighting the temptation of isolation
so that you can remain connected and if
you're connected you're going to be okay
but it's not going to just happen most
people don't like you don't have to
think about breathing you just breathe
you have to think about staying
connected the other thing is you can't
try to be successful to think it's going
to solve something inside of you being
successful other than maybe a sense of
purpose it turns out having a purpose
and serving others and being focused in
something that's generally good for you
beyond that no amount of status and
power is going to fill something inside
of you whatever is inside of you that
you're missing you need to probably fill
you know through introspection like we
might call it Solitude connection to
self or maybe you know like many of us
growing up we kind of lonely and so we
wanted to be loved so we decided to
pursue these things so that people would
be connected to us but then by working
we're just loner more and more isolated
in fact maybe the thing we had to to do
the entire time was reach out and bring
people in maybe that was the thing we
were missing and that was probably what
happened with me if I could speak in if
you could talk to Brian Zer in October
2007 when you were 26 years old and you
arrived in San Francisco and you could
say Brian listen here are some practical
things I'm going to do here's how I'm
going to change your schedule for the
next 10 15 years I'm going to add one
extra hour of something
to your schedule every week what would
that one hour
be it's completely obvious to me that I
would make time for the people I love
who who is that I would start my family
especially my
sister I'm now really close to her but
through a bunch of the airb journey we
would go weeks without
talking for no other reason I was just
busy and like well like and and and
there's this Paradox that when you go on
this crazy Journey like I do a lot of
people don't reach out to you because
they're afraid to reach out you because
they think they're bothering you but
you're so busy that you're dealing with
inbound from the business that if no one
like you're just reacting all the time
so if your friends don't re reach out to
you you're not going to reach out to
them because you're just reacting to
everything and they're like well they're
so busy if they want to talk to me they
reach out to me and you see how you end
up in this like drift and drift and
drift I would have stayed connected to
my high school friends I would have kept
I I have high school friends I now do an
annual trip with some of them I didn't
talked to for almost 20 years I graduate
I didn't keep in touch with them it's
one of the great regrets I have I had
College friends that I lived with after
Ry but every year as I went on my airb
journey we talked less and less and less
and I drifted more and more away and I
could go down the list I actually I had
this thing I've said I talked about it
once
before but I would it was
20021 it was like May or
June and
I I had developed a at this point long
relationship with President Obama he had
left office and he became a bit of a
mentor to me and he mentored me un like
leadership and business at one point he
took a personal interest to me and I
remember I was single got out of a
relationship and I kind of felt lonely
and I remember telling him I think need
to be in another relationship and he
said I don't think you yet need to be in
a relationship I think what you need are
friends and I thought to myself but I
have friends what do you mean but then I
then he explained that like he had these
like 15 people in his life many of them
before you know mostly before he was
president and he like they were totally
connected and I realized I had all these
people in my life but if I call them
first they go what's going on like
what's new with you and I have to get
them all up to spe in my life and if you
have someone in your life where if you
were to call them or text them you have
to get them up to speed then you're not
connected people you're connected to are
already up to speed and I actually think
that most of us being alone or being
lonely is an illusion or maybe the
illusion is that like people don't love
us and the fact is we have all these
people but we're not reaching out to
them and they're also not reaching out
to us and everyone's waiting for someone
else to take some initiative and it
seems crazy cuz we're just a text
message away way from our entire life
and yet what do we do we open the phone
and instead of texting people or
FaceTiming them or like seeing them we
what do we do open social media so
opening social media is like going to a
dinner party except you don't go inside
you're looking in the window and you
know like and like it's great if it's a
Way Station to meet people but if you're
look just look in the window and that's
your social life then that's you're
going to feel really sad so knock on the
door and walk in and start talking to
people start hanging out so this is that
that would be the thing I would do I
wouldn't have been totally isolated I
would have REM con stayed connected to
my family my close friends and really
the only other thing I'd say is I I'm
now friends with a bunch of other
entrepreneurs including you said you had
Daniel L on the show and I would call
him a friend and I spend time with him
and others so in other words I would
have old I would keep my old friends and
I would be friends of people my
situation M So Daniel doesn't know the
Brian before Airbnb so maybe he doesn't
know the real me that that me but he
does know a different real me that my
childhood friends can't know because my
high school and college friends can't
possibly know what it's like for me to
go through I'm going through and I can
tell it to them and they can have
compassion but they can't possibly know
what I'm talking about but Daniel can
and Daniel can know what it's look like
when an executive leaves you where
everyone's kind of the walls are caving
in and you feel like you're not scaling
and you're like drowning in this you
know there's all these things I can
describe we have a shared experience so
I think those two groups are really
important your roots and your friends
from the past and your friends from your
present day shared experiences and there
was a period of time where I didn't have
either of those
really as you saying that it reminded me
of a phrase I heard many years ago in a
book I read that said the things that
are easy to do are also easy not to to
do and as you're talking about the um
the just sending the text is so easy to
do which is also why it's so easy not to
do it because we're always just one text
away so what's the point sending it but
also it reminded me of why I have that
sandtimer on the W on the Shelf over
there because it's funny I think I've
lived so much of my life believing that
I could do life later like I could pick
up the relationship with my family later
and then that's it's almost like we're
living through the frame of that we're
going to live forever like when you look
at our decision- making you think think
[__] you're giving like three decades of
your prime years to building this thing
like and we we're assuming that we can
pick up the rest later it'll all be
there and that's what I learned I tried
to pick it up later and there was
nothing there I think that metaphor of
The Hourglass with the sand slowly
dripping every day of your life is a
window and every day that window gets a
little narrower and a little narrower
and a little narrower should I tell you
the difference though just with the
sound timer tell me is you you know it's
dripping but you can't see how much you
have left oh that's a really good point
so it's and that's why you should almost
cover it up because we can you know with
the sand timer we can see how much sand
we have left but in life I could I could
live for another six
minutes and so could you or it could be
six months or 60 years and yes that's a
profound thought
and you're right we don't really live
our
lives imagining if we had a limited time
left how would we live I like to I I an
exercise I've done is imagining you know
at a young age I had 10 years left
because if I had one year left I might
be so dramatically different that I
might not do something sustainable I
might like not work and just only spend
time and that's not sustainable but I
think we always go about life thinking
we have many decades and I think that
creates a sense of procrastination and
if you say to yourself you have this
decade What would you want to do it
gives you enough urgency but also it
long enough to have routine to build
towards something and I think that like
the one of the most important things
people can do i i two thoughts come to
my mind the first thought is that you
probably heard this saying you can
people tend to overestimate what they
can do in a year and underestimate what
they can do in 10 years that 10 years is
a profoundly long period of time in some
ways if you're disciplined and focused
and you can have a small idea a small
dream a small goal and you can build
something vast and I've only done Airbnb
for 15 years so you think about what 10
years is I you wouldn't have hired me as
your intern 15 years ago the other thing
about 10 years though is think
about the Amazing Life Experiences you
can have with other people and I think
life is about experiences but the best
experiences are the ones you share with
other people like on Airbnb 80% of our
trips are with other Travelers like 80%
of people Trav with other people and I
think as I think about my memories
growing up you know I rolled the school
bus like 180 days a year or more than 10
years that's thousands of days and all
those memories blend together I don't
really remember those but I remember
basically every vacation I've ever took
taken I remember the first time I went
to this city the first time I went to
that City and they're burned in my mind
and I think that when I look back on my
life I'm going to remember all the
experiences I went
all the places I
saw the friendships and the and and the
people I loved and who loved me and what
I poured my heart and soul into and I
think that like that is an important way
that I've thought about my life and I
made time for some of it but I think the
pressure of being successful made me so
focused on trying to climb a mountain
that maybe I didn't focus enough on who
I was climbing with and who is along the
way way with me Bron we interviewed Pala
of patients on their last days on Earth
so she interviewed people on their
deathbed and asked them what their
biggest regret
was hypothetically if you had six
minutes left and I was interviewing you
to find out what your biggest regret
might
be now you had six minutes left what
might you say to
me I think my biggest regret would
be the time I didn't spend with people I
love
maybe making sure those people knew how
I felt about
them and then I'm
42 I've created many great things the
one thing I haven't created that I've
always wanted was probably a family I
just couldn't even explain exactly
rationally why but it's just you know
like we all I think humans have an many
many people have an urge to to create a
family maybe they feel like they've
created something and they can leave
something behind I've I will have left a
company behind but maybe I could leave
more than that behind so those would be
the things that I would regret
but importantly I'd also like to
say I feel like in other ways I've lived
multiple lifetimes and I would be filled
with so much love and gratitude for what
I've been able to experience
because I never thought in my lifetime I
would be able to experience what I've
experienced right now up to this point
the amount of people I get to meet the
amount of work I get to do
I get to work come to work every day to
obsess with some of the most creative
people in the world and you know most
people they don't get to be surrounded
with the people they choose when you're
a CEO you get to pick the people you're
surrounded with there's something really
special and I've gotten to select some
of the most creative kind compassionate
intensely driven people in the
world making some things that I'm so
proud of that have affect millions of
people's lives so but I tend to think we
regret the things we didn't do not the
things we did do and I think we tend to
regret you know the people we didn't
spend time with the people we loveed
that we didn't tell or the people we you
know could have met and didn't I think
this is fascinating I looked at the back
end of our YouTube channel and it says
that since this channel started
69.9% of you that watch it frequently
haven't yet hit the Subscribe button so
I have a favor to ask you if you've ever
watched this Channel and enjoyed the
content if you're enjoying this episode
right now please could I ask a small
favor please hit the Subscribe button
helps this channel more than I can
explain and I promise if you do that to
return the favor we will make the show
better and better and better and better
and better that's the promise I'm
willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a deal there
sacrifice involved in everyone's Journey
especially when it's a great journey and
you're talking about being I think 25
years old when Walt Disney inspired you
yeah
Neil gabar I've read this book
twice yes I've read this book twice this
book okay so this book had a big effect
on me
and there's two chapters that really
affected me so this is the Neo gabler
book it's the definitive biography and
it's pretty extensive it's like over 600
pages so you can see it the W Walt
Disney's bi biography yes the biography
about the man Walt Disney and there's
two entrepreneurs that I've always
looked up to more than any others and
those are Walt Disney and Steve Jobs
partly because they built companies that
have lived Beyond them but more
importantly they were creative people
that were basically running tech
companies I mean Apple was clearly a
techan Disney was at the time very much
a like a technological Marvel the first
chapter that really affected me was this
chapter I think it's go-getter it
describes the period of time where he
moves from Kansas City to Los Angeles
and he his early 20s he moves to Los
Angeles he convinces his brother Roy
Disney Roy uh Roy Disney who I think has
like uh I can't remember what ailment he
has but he has like this horrible
ailment and they don't think he's even
going to live and Walt says come to
California it's going to be good for you
and Roy they were like BR they were
literally brothers and I always
thoughted of Joe my co-founder as like
brothers if we were like like non-blood
related Brothers but you know when
you're a co-founder you're almost like
brothers and him going to LA in the 20 I
think it was the 20s was like me going
to San Francisco in 2007 the gears of
the world felt like they were turning
there in some really important way so
this book I read right before I started
Airbnb I'm living in Los Angeles I read
this biography and I thought to myself I
don't have to work for someone like Walt
Disney I can try to become something
like that even if I don't get to that
level of scale of success that's okay I
can do something much smaller but I can
do something like this and then there
was another chapter um four years into
Airbnb called
Folly Folly Folly is the title of the
chapter about Snow White and they called
it Folly because they named it Disney's
Folly and the reason he named it
Disney's Folly is because he bet the
entire company on this featurelength
animated film and everyone thought there
was this terrible the company was going
to out of business and I thought I was
reading that chapter and that's when a
light bulb went off I he basically
invented the storyboard for that movie
because the movie was so long right no
one had done a feature like anime film
they had to storyboard out the scenes
and I remember thinking to myself once I
read that chapter I said what if we
created a storyboard of the perfect
vacation on Airbnb from the time you
book to the time you check in and what
if we literally designed the end to-end
Journey you might call this service
design and this became a Guiding Light
to how we design our service we didn't
just design the screen the apps the
emails we designed the experience the
endtoend experience kind of like when I
was in industrial design school and we
were like designing a ventilator or some
product and you're trying to put
yourself in the shoes of the user so
this book became very influential for me
and maybe the final thing I'll just say
is like somebody once said numbers are
the language of business and I remember
thinking to myself no language is the
language of business numbers is just the
only way we have to measure them but
that you ever notice there's 500
companies in a fort 500 how many of them
are creative people I don't know how
many but like I I might be one of the
only ones that went to design school
they have Boards of directors let's say
there's 12 PE or 10 people per board so
that's like 5,000 board members how many
of them are creative people or designers
or people from the humanities not many
how many EX CEOs have creative people
reporting to them not many and so we
have this world now where we many people
are dissatisfied with the way the world
is we are often given two bad options we
tend to be fighting Zero Sum when we
could imagine something better but we
don't have a lot of people in positions
of power that can take creative leaps of
the imagination and really understand
how to design something better that
we're in right now and I think
creativity is kind of being
systematically squashed from Maybe
Corporate America you know paabo Picasso
said it took me four years to learn the
paint like Raphael but a lifetime to
learn to paint like a child I think that
childhood curiosity is something that
creative people are able to typically I
think hold hold on to and and I think
that's being a little bit lost and what
I loved about Walt Disney and I also
liked about Steve Jobs was since they
were truly creative people that had
truly creative companies they empowered
them and they had an intuition they
didn't just paint the company by number
and that's the kind of company I've
always tried to do I've had this dream
of creating one of the most creative
places on Earth like Disney or apple we
may not get there but at least we'll
have the ideal I want to talk about that
moment where creativity won out over
what a CFO or the numbers might say but
taking a step back to that what
something else you said there which is
um kind of alluded to this idea of
creating for creating for yourself being
the path forward to creating for others
and I saw that it's actually one of the
big things as an entrepreneur taken away
from the Airbnb story that you don't
have to sit there and think about what a
million people want in a product you
just have to solve a problem for like
you and your best friend and you can
build an an amazing business out of that
and that's really like the Genesis of
Airbnb if you go right back to that's
almost every company in the world by the
way almost every company in the world
maybe Enterprise companies are not that
people have this thing people
forget take any giant company in the
world nothing large started large they
always started small it started with a
few people one or a few people and many
times they were making something that
looked like a toy it looked like a hobby
I remember one of my First Investors
said Brian don't worry about people
stealing your idea because if it's any
good everyone will dismiss it everyone
will dismiss it everyone will dismiss it
it turns out that a lot of breakthrough
ideas don't seem breakthrough at the
time they seem crazy or they seem
unserious or they seem like Hobbies they
seem something small
Airbnb we did not design a way for a
millions of people to stay in homes
Airbnb started one weekend it was
October 2007 a design conference was
coming to San Francisco all the hotels
are sold out and we had this idea we
said what if we just turned our house
into a bed and breakfast for the design
conference we can make enough rent I
think I actually have that email oh yeah
you have the email that Joe sent me yeah
yeah you have the email that Joe sent
sent me and so that's I thought of a way
to make a few bucks turning her place
into a designer's bed and breakfast
offering young designers who come into
town a place to crash during the 4day
weekend this is September 22nd 2007 we
thought we were just creating a way to
create a bed and breakfast for the
conference unfortunately we didn't have
any beds but Joe had air beds we pulled
the air beds out of the closet and we
called it airbed and breakfast.com now I
can assure you we did not think airbed
and breakfast would be a company where 3
four million people a night would use to
sleep in we did not think I'd be doing
podcasts and I'd be a giant public
company we thought it was going to be a
way for three people one weekend to stay
in our apartment sleep on some airbeds
pay us money we'd have a cool weekend
adventure and we go about our lives and
the funny thing is we thought it would
pay the rent while Joe Nate and I or Joe
and I at the time thought of the big
idea we kept talking about the big idea
an airb and breakfast was just a way to
keep solving our own problem paying her
rent before we came up with the big idea
but when I joined yator it's a very
well-known startup incubator of sorts
the founder Paul Graham used to have a
saying and it's the most important
advice they ever got and it's what you
were saying and it's counterintuitive he
said it's better to have a hundred
people love you than a million people
that just sort of like you if you have a
100 people that love your service they
when they love something they'll tell
everyone they know I remember talking to
somebody she loved airing be I'm like
how many people you've told a be she
goes I probably told 10 or 20 and her
friend standing next to her go no she's
told like one or 200 people and I
started realizing people who love
something become your marketing
department and they'll tell other people
and if they tell other people that grows
by what we call word of mouth so how do
you get somebody to love something I
don't know how you get a million people
to like something at the same time when
you're starting from nothing but I do
know how you could get one or two people
to like something you could meet with
them you can understand what their needs
are and you could design something so
perfectly spoke just for them and you
could literally think of them as
recruiting one person at a time if you
have a business idea you don't need to
get to a million you before you get to a
million you need to get to 100,000
before you get to 100,000 you get to
10,000 and before 10,000 you get to a
th000 and before 10,000 you get to 100
so all you have to do and all roads lead
to 100 don't Focus focus on the mountain
top focus on the first step Don't focus
in a million Focus just in 100 and as
you do that you make the problem small
and manageable because a million has to
build systems and just you start
developing complexities you can't deal
with so all you got to do is get to 100
once you get to 100 now you get to a th
and what you do is when you get thousand
you just keep going in orders of
magnitude and the job changes but people
get paralyzed because they think they
have to make something big and they're
like well Apple wasn't like this or
Google wasn't like this well actually
Apple started by selling black these
blue boxes in the back of like a trunk
of a car Google was this like research
project they were going to sell for like
low millions of dollars and they didn't
really know what they had these things
all start as unres toys that seem hacked
together and they're only made for you
and your friends that's almost always
how it starts and that question there
about creativity
beating rationality from like a
corporate Amer America standpoint the
Airbnb story story is riddled with
moments where you chose creativity and
customer experience over scalability and
profits but that wins out over a long
period of time in the story it always
does doesn't it I think it's in our soul
to be creative I think most
entrepreneurs are creative it's funny
almost every business is conceived
intuitively maybe sometimes people have
a business plan and they have some like
statistical insights and data but most
people start a company they have no data
like they have no customers and you no
customers you probably have no data and
so everything is started with intuition
with insights and understanding and then
the problem is as you get more
successful you get more data and as you
get more data you get more reliant on
the data and as you get more reliant on
the data you get more derivative you get
more iterative and data is good it's
what we might call necessary but not
sufficient but why if something made you
successful would you AB abandon it if
you follow your intuition if you follow
your heart if you had ideas why would
you seize to have them the bigger you
get you don't just have to found a
company you have to continue to refound
it to rebuild it continue to have new
ideas and I think the difference between
Airbnb and a lot of other large
multinational corporations if you think
of a company like a body most companies
it's like they're cut off at the head
they're disconnected from their heart
and they're kind of cut off and they're
focused on the one more analytical side
of their brain I think what most
companies need is more creativity and
maybe a little more heart and soul most
people at companies are loving
well-meaning people they just don't act
that way you know like the HR and legal
departments are mostly really good
people but the the Departments sometimes
work where the groups overly defer to
these groups they're very risk averse
they round the edges off it they sees to
take risk not realizing the biggest risk
is we don't change in a world that we
know will change but no one wants to be
the one to make a change to take a risk
the organization starts focusing on
itself rather than why it exists to
serve other people so all these things
start happening and you start appointing
more and more analytical people and then
pretty soon you wake up and the only
people on your board are only analytical
people and they only value what can be
measured and the only things you are
measuring are on are measured on a
short-term Horizon so the quality of
your product the brand how happy people
are
the vision whether you're moving in the
right direction are you about to be
disrupted in latest technology these
things are all hard to measure there's
an old Sig by a a Nobel Prize winner
named lonus Pauling says not everything
that counts can be counted not
everything that can be counted counts so
we tend to have a bias towards
short-term Financial measurements it
doesn't mean they're unimportant but if
you only optimize for them then you are
going to be imperiled and it's a pretty
damn good guarantee that you're going to
be Irrelevant in the future so I feel
like there needs to be more heart in
business more creativity in business and
not for the sake of the creative people
for the sake of the businesses for the
sake of the world we live in don't we
want to live in a world that's more
interesting than more exciting we need
to bring the creativity that artist and
scientists come together to bring and
it's that marriage of artists and
scientists and operators all coming
together that I think can design a
significantly better world than the we
loan we have in now we have all the
technology we need to design a a Better
World We believe it or not have all the
money we need we can say we need more
money but actually we can be more
efficient and more productive with the
resources we have this is going to
require creativity though we've got an
exciting new sponsor on this podcast and
I couldn't be more excited to announce
that we're now working with Shopify and
if there's one tool that I use pretty
much every single day in my businesses
that is certainly Shopify I'm sure
you've all heard about Shopify but for
some reason if you haven't then Shopify
is the Commerce platform that is
revolutionizing millions of businesses
is worldwide whether you're starting a
side hustle a new project with a friend
or a global business Shopify has you
covered you guys may know that we
recently sold a product on this platform
called the daro conversation cards which
featured questions from the guests in
these episodes and from start to finish
from launching that product we used
Shopify a total Game Changer makes life
incredibly incredibly smooth when it
relates to business and a tool that my
team have absolutely loved using which
is not always the case with technology
we couldn't have launched those
conversation cards without it and if you
guys haven't tried Shopify out for
yourself then I highly suggest you do
head to shopify.com Bartlet to take your
business to the next level today and let
me know how you get on that shopify.com
bartler let me know how you get on as
you may know this podcast is sponsored
by hu if you're living under a rock you
might have missed that I discovered hes
RTD about four years ago Hues RTD is
basically a meal in a bottle it is
nutritionally complete it contains 26 of
your essential vitamins and minerals
it's got your protein in there 20 gram
of protein it's got slow release energy
in there in the form of those slow
release carbs it's just nutritionally
complete not only have I got a good
relationship with it in terms of health
but it saves my life in terms of those
busy days where there's a higher
probability of me reaching for something
I might regret if you haven't tried HS
RTD you could probably seen it in a
couple of supermarkets but you can order
it online and the link is in the
description below let me know which
flavor is your favorite and also tell me
if it ends up adding value to your life
in the form of making you nutritionally
complete on those difficult days at the
very beginning
I saw this
email which I think is really important
because maybe it's the most important
thing because there are going to be
people uh starting companies now that
are getting a lot of emails like that
this is from August 1st 2008 we were by
the way so let me give the context of
this email so Jo Joe and I were trying
to raise money for everyone trying to
raise money I want you to know that
Airbnb was trying to raise
$150,000 at a $1.5 million I think post
money valuation I'll give you that right
now exactly and and here's one of many
rejection letters hi Brian apologies for
the delayed response we've had a chance
to discuss internally and unfortunately
don't think that it's right for
fill-in-the blank investment firm from
an investment perspective the potential
Market opportunity did not seem large
enough for a required
model now I want you to just put in this
perspective Airbnb handles nearly as
much money as the entire GDP of the
country of Croatia today one in about
every $1,500 spent in the world about $1
spent on Airbnb that's a pretty large
market and our business is pretty much
the same idea as the idea that we
proposed that person who said our Market
opportunity wasn't large enough so
there's probably a myriad of lessons in
that aren't there and I think
that it's a reminder that the world
doesn't just change or at least it
doesn't just transform toward WS our
dreams ideals and Ambitions that require
certain types of people we might call
them entrepreneurs inventors all sorts
of people in different domains that
believe the world could be a little
different than the one that they live in
that have the audacity to believe that
they can do it and they have the ability
to convince other people to go on that
Journey with them but along that Journey
everything's going to be different
you're going to get lost you're going to
be cold you're going to you're going to
have like obstacles things are going to
attack you you're going to fall down
pits and the question is when people are
cold and they're shivering and they're
not sure what to do and you're running
out of resources and rations can you
find your way up that mountain do you
know why you're going can you invent all
these different apparatus like there's a
stream you can't figure out you can
build a bridge to cross the stream with
the limited resources you have can you
recruit people along the way and can you
beat the drum and when people are tired
and they say I want to sleep you say yes
we're going to rest but we got to go
just 500 more steps I know it's it's
right over the edge I think we can do a
little bit better and can you push
people outside their comfort zone not
enough to hate you but enough to feel
like like a trainer you're like three
more reps and you don't want to do it
and then that very moment they're not
your friend but the end of the workout
you're like thank you for pushing me
that hard this is that kind of person
and can you take Divergent ideas that no
one's ever seen before and just continue
to reformulate them could you store
these ideas in your head a thousand
competing ideas and just reformulate
them in your mind that turns out the
stuff is difficult but you can work your
way up there most people watching this
have the skill set to be an entrepreneur
not everyone has a skill set or the
desire to run a giant company I don't
think everyone needs to do that but a
lot of people have the skill set to do
something to start something this is
what you need to get up the mountain and
the problem is imagine we got up the
mountain and then somebody was dropped
from a helicopter having never walked up
the mountain and you tell them okay now
you lead this group up the next Mountain
can you imagine how hard it would be for
that person to drop from the sky or
maybe they joined a third of the way up
the mountain but they weren't there at
the very beginning you see a Founder
brings three things that a professional
manager doesn't have the first thing a
Founder has is they're the biological
par
so you can love something but when
you're the biological parent of
something like it came from you it is
you there's a deep passion in love the
second thing a Founder has is they have
the permission right like I can't tell
another child what to do but if they
were my child I probably could I have
the permission and so you have a
permission I could rename the I could
Rebrand the company and a professional
manager would probably come and say I
can't do that but I know how we named it
I know how we branded it so so you know
what you can change and the third thing
that a Founder brings is you built it so
you know how to rebuild it you know the
freezing temperature of a company you
know at what temperature it melts you
know like what this looked like before
it was tooled where it came from the
Alloys where they where they were
sourced from you're not just managing it
you're building it and the problem is
professional managers typically don't
have any of those three at least not in
the abundance of Founders but the
problem with Founders there's two
problems the first is most them cannot
scale to run a giant company and even if
they do the last problem is they don't
live forever and companies Great
companies usually want to live longer
than humans do and so therefore you end
up with the inevitable challenge that
Disney and Steve Jobs had which is
succession planning and actually both of
them died prematurely and didn't maybe
Steve prepared more than than Walt did
and that's the last step of the journey
but I think there's something really
special about Founders and founder-led
companies and I think that if you want
the World to Change we need more
entrepreneurs we need more Founders if
you want to empower more women you
should make more women entrepreneurs if
you want to lift up more economies
around the world you should lift up
entrepreneurs in those economies it's
one of the greatest ways to create
wealth to change the world and to just
change the directory of society so
powerful Brian it made me think about
what Steve Jobs did leave behind and
that's maybe where the word culture
comes in because I would have bet
against Apple surviving and flourishing
in the wake of Steve Jobs's um passing
because Steve was so so special but he
clearly left a set of enduring
principles behind culture you know I
spoke to Daniel as you said as a friend
of yours um he said to me 20 years old
didn't care about culture 30 years old
didn't know what it was at 40 years old
I think company culture and team culture
is the most important thing when you
think about culture how important is
that what is it how does one go about
creating it it's funny you ask this
question because last week I sent a
email to the entire company to all 6,000
people and my email was about culture
and why it's important and what it is
can I read you a portion of it what a
privilege so the context of email is I
hired a a head of people in culture like
a different name for
HR Jon and I have always believed that
you must design the culture you want
otherwise you'll be designed for you and
you might not like what emerges the
people and the culture they create at
the heart of
Airbnb simply put culture is what
creates the foundation for all future
innovation in the long
run the culture is the most important
thing you will ever design because it's
the engine that designs everything
else all good designs start with a
vision and I want working at Airbnb to
feel like working at the world's largest
startup I believe we can grow into one
of the largest companies in the world
without feeling large a company that's
still like run like a startup with the
best people in every discipline
collaborating at high speeds with
intense Focus all well maintaining
mental bureaucracy and communication
layers and to make this happen we're
going to reimagine HR function because
too many companies have lost sight of
what HR was originally designed to do
reducing it to merely an administrative
function yet as core HR is about people
and culture and it's one of the most
strategic functions within a company
that's why we don't call it HR because
it should be about bringing out the very
best in people most of all I want us to
feel like we're building one of the most
creative places on Earth a company that
brings together some of the best people
of Our Generation to dream up new
products and services that capture the
world's imagination a place where years
from now people would say if I was alive
during that time that's where I would
have wanted to work I literally wrote
that email last week about
culture it's it's so incredible so
incredible because yeah the the greatest
leaders that I've met all arrive at the
same conclusion about culture even if it
takes them 10 years or 20 years or what
they arrive there um the question though
because so many CEOs could send that
email yes right everyone could just you
know they just heard Brian say it so
they copy and paste and send it to their
team the question is how do you actually
create that it's so great so big huge
Insight here
okay I used to think you talk about the
culture and you talk about how important
it is and you write out a list of well
what is your culture well our culture
are a bunch of principles or values we
live by so what what makes us most
unique let's do a session let's write
out a list of our values now let's tell
everyone the values let's print them on
the walls let's have people repeat them
let's keep telling people culture is
important and that stuff can help a
little bit but it's not how you build
culture so let me give you a few
thoughts your
culture is the shared way you do things
and often they're based on lessons
you've learned and the lessons you tend
to remember the most are the ones that
are seared in you they come from trials
and tribulations from your most
difficult times it's the way you rise
the occasion in the face of adversity
your culture is the behaviors of the
leaders that get mimicked all the way
down every single person your culture is
every time you choose to hire someone
every time you choose to fire someone
every time you choose to promote
somebody it's the way everyone does
everything and the way a leader designs
the culture is not by writing out a list
of values it's by basically leading by
example every single day and taking a
survey of every single thing happening
and constantly shaping it pruning it
like a gardener you know you you you
don't just allow the culture to happen
you design the culture you have an idea
of what you want to do and you're just
constantly getting this group together
you know you might have a culture of
excellence and a culture of Excellence
means I review all the work and I say
not good enough not good enough not good
enough and eventually I could not join
the meeting but people know what I'd say
they'd say it's not good enough this is
our standard and the moment I cannot be
in the room and the same action happens
as if I was in the room that's the
moment it goes from management
to culture so it's like a golf swing to
teach a golf swing you got to like
probably I don't play golf be the
instructor has to watch the person and
at some point the person learns how to
swing a golf swing without the
instructor there that's the difference
between management and culture and
culture is something that people learn
they develop these shared instincts and
it's so important because is it's your
ultimate intellectual property not your
technology not your recipe s not your
exclusive contract vendor
relationships the way you know how to do
something it that is the most important
thing a company has because all a
company is is a bunch of people a bunch
of money and a direction that th people
are using those resources to go towards
people resources strategy and the
culture is a thing that bonds those
things together you're the smartest
person I'm going to get to throw this
idea of culture at so I wanted to throw
it at you because I've just again a week
ago I started thinking about it when I
was asked the question on stage people
because of in a post-pandemic world are
now trying to figure out if they're
remote or in office or whatever else
trying to figure out their company
culture and I came to the conclusion
that you shouldn't um you shouldn't try
and create your company culture it is
already there if you look closely and
try and figure it out and here's what I
kind of concluded that if Trump someone
trying to figure out what their company
culture is think about the problem
you're trying to solve in the world then
from there reverse engineer the
behaviors you need to solve the problem
then from there reverse Engineers the
philosophies and values you need to
create those behaviors then from there
implement the [__] things hire the
people so through the lens of this
podcast how do we become the best in the
world or what we do best podcast in the
world the behavior we need because we're
dealing with algorithms that changed all
the time is this experimental mindset we
need to constantly be leaning in every
time something changes that's the
behavior we want so one of our values is
what we call 1% which means that we
obsess over the smallest details and
then how do we Implement that into the
business well we had a head head of
experimentation in this podcast
full-time we have a full-time data
scientist if you said about the vibe in
the room and I said the scent the AI
thing glued under the table recording
the conversation with the trackpad so
that's like our company culture it was
the behaviors we needed the philosophies
that created and then the systems
processes and people we then hide
through to make sure that we achieved
that does that roughly you're the first
person I've ever said that too that
roughly makes
sense and please interrogate it for
Flaws because I need to improve my
thinking I think it's essentially
correct and I think the one thing I
would add is when we say behaviors
because I agree with the word behaviors
but I want to like round out behaviors
because for just a
second I used to think behaviors as the
things in addition we used to say the
what and the how this is something I
always got wrong there's what you did
and how you did it and people tend to
think of the what as competency how well
you did your job and culture is how how
you went about doing it and like so were
you a jerk were you nice did you make
people around you better and I don't
think that's accurate that's what I used
to think there's the what and the
how it turns
out the how you do something creates the
what in other words you can't break the
core values and succeed at making
something but like trample on people
along the way your values your culture
is how you do something so for example
let me take our example like one of our
one of our we don't we don't even really
have codified core values we have old
codified core values but like our
culture is at its strongest when it's
just like one shared Consciousness so
the best cultures is on shared
Consciousness where everything in your
head everything you care about is pered
throughout the people and they can
finish your sentences and people would
do in a room without you what they would
do if you were there and that's when you
create this Collective consciousness so
my thing is the culture starts with the
intersection of what your vision is and
what your personal values are and how
you want to lead and to use this I just
want to give one very concrete example
of where I left this out I'm a
perfectionist I am if people I who work
for me will watch they' actually laugh
because that's kind of like a classic
understatement I want every part of the
product to be perfect I want our product
to be perfectly designed I want it to
look like one person designed it
completely cohesive I obsess over
Simplicity I want to make sure that it's
about reducing something to its Essence
I want there to be the sense of heart
and Imagination and the problem was the
way we were running the company I was
running it the way I thought everyone
else wanted to work and they wanted to
work in autonomous separate groups and
divisions they wanted to do lots of
experimentation and for me I like to be
creative and experimental but I not want
to do micro experimental optimizations
for software because with that meant let
me use an analogy let's say we're making
a car one team is experimenting on the
tires and then another team's
experimenting on the wheels but it turns
out those two things don't fit together
and they fit together they invent this
new wheel now it's got to fit on a
bigger car body so now they got to go to
the car body team and change the shape
of the car but that makes the car I
don't know maybe heavier they need a
different battery so now they go to the
battery team the battery team says we
need to manufacture new battery but now
they need to actually capitalize that so
they go to the finance team and the
finance team goes we have to go to the
IR invest your relations to say we need
to explain we need more money it's just
a metaphor the metaphor is that you're
all in one team rowing together and I
realized that we need to be totally
integrated so I did some things that no
one else did I said there's no more
divisions we're going to be run like a
startup we have a design Department a
marketing department a engineering
department a sales and this is how every
little companies run and almost no large
companies in the entire world are
running run this way people say you
can't run a a a giant company like a
startup but I I wanted to do that and I
know Steve Jobs had done it that way
it's like I'm going to try to do the
same thing the next thing is people tend
to do measurement when you get really
big and you do small tactical micro
optimizations but then you tend to bias
towards Performance Marketing towards
AdWords towards small optimizations and
you don't take big creative leaps
because big creative leaps require the
entire company to organize work together
you don't obsess over things you can't
measure and you it's hard to measure
quality if this pixels off if that
doesn't feel quite right if this thing's
complicated it may be hard to measure so
maybe that doesn't matter I said no that
matters that's our culture and somebody
once said but we can't measure the
impact I said that's exactly why it's
our values because our culture and our
values are we do something when nobody
notices and we can't even measure it and
we don't even know if it works the
reason we do it because that's what we
believe it's like you know like this
this table we want it to be a certain
Sheen but I can't prove to you that more
people want to sit in this room but I
want it that way it matters to me I
always joke to people the most important
customer is yourself you have to love it
because real artists want to sign their
name to work and you have to be willing
to sign your name in the bottom right
quarter of that thing to make it perfect
so this is just a metaphor so it starts
at you your values and then the last
thing is your behaviors those are those
behaviors aren't just how you act and
behave
it's your capabilities it's how you make
something and maybe like your values are
we're constantly trying new things and
that has to be rigorously detailed and
documented and I think you want to show
by example and I tend to skip level work
with a team and and watch them and keep
meeting them I meet every team in the
company that works on projects that I I
see I meet them either every week every
two weeks or every four weeks and I have
them show work it's like go it's like
watching a golf swing I'm the chief
editor or the Orchestra conductor I
don't push decision- making down I pull
it in by push and making decisioning
down I'm pushing the company to be
fragmented by pulling decision making in
it's like a solar system the planets are
coming closer to Sun and at some point
we're all one Collective Consciousness
we're totally integrated we can Row in
the same direction and we all have the
same values every single thing you care
about in your head as a leader your
culture is as strong as everyone else
caring as much as you do about every one
of those things they may never be a
carbon copy individuality is good but
the further away from you usually it's
like carbon copy of a carbon copy of a
carbon copy and so I think your job as a
leader is to flatten the organization to
make people feel as close as possible to
you by feeling close to you they're
going to be close to the values because
you as a leader you are the values and
then disaster strikes and then disaster
strikes
and then you know what when disaster
strikes whatever you do in your darkest
hour that becomes your culture because
your culture people think is the perks
the yoga the free food no culture is
like when everyone said you know you
were going to fail in your darkest hour
when you didn't know how to get out of
the situation when you know you were in
this incredibly difficult POS position
maybe you're in a difficult negotiation
maybe you're about to run out of money
maybe you're in this horrible situation
with a competitor whatever you do in
that difficult or the P or in our case a
pandemic and you're about to go public
and you're working on one of the biggest
IPOs ever at that
point and then suddenly you lose 80% of
your business in eight weeks that's what
you lost 80% of our business and we had
a business larger we were handle our our
gross sales were probably higher than
Starbucks I think at that time was $35
billion I think Starbucks is like 25 30
billion this is gross sales through the
platform gross revenue gross gross
booking
value when a company that big loses 80%
of its business in 8 weeks it's like an
18wheeler going 80 mil an hour and
slamming on the brakes nothing really
good comes out of that situation at
least not initially was that your
darkest hour 100% % it was so dark at
least professionally I mean My Darkest
Personnel hour I I'll talk about in a
second but my
darkest professional
moment
was I
remember there were news
articles is this the end of
Airbnb will Airbnb
exist and this is 8 weeks after we were
preparing for one of the highest IPOs
ever
how could we go from this noun and a
verb used all over the world to suddenly
people were
worrying will we even survive and I knew
there were probably some questions not
only could we survive but could I could
I could I Brian lead us through this I
think no one doubted I knew how to build
this I did I mean that happened but was
I enough of an adult and a grownup and a
leader to be able to man through a
crisis and that crisis occurred on March
15th that's when the world shut down the
Ides of March and I remember holding an
emergency board
meeting and I remember there was a quote
by Andy Grove he one of the founders of
Intel I believe and he
said bad companies are destroyed by a
crisis good companies survive a crisis
but great
companies are defined by a crisis
and I told our board that we're going to
be that third
category see everyone was like oh my God
why us and I was like no no watch us and
I told myself at that moment this is our
defining moment I had no evidence that
this was our defining moment but I said
this is our defining moment and I said
what's about to ensue over the next six
months will be the best 6 months in the
company's history we are going to
redefine every part of our company so I
learned a lesson in a crisis you make
principal decisions not business
decisions a business decision is you
make a decision predicting the best
possible outcome a principal decision is
irresp of the outcome maybe you have no
idea how the outcome is going to play
out how do you want to be remembered
what's important to you I wrote a bunch
of principles some were pretty simple
like act decisive and fast Everyone by
the way data oriented people really
struggle in crisis M because the data is
changed and they don't know what to do
and they are uncomfortable making
intuitive decisions you better do that
in a crisis the second as I said act
with all stakeholders of mind a lot of
people suddenly they don't think about
everyone and they get really cold and
heartless I mean that's a Temptation and
you should not do that in a crisis
always imagine how to Well Be Remembered
in history maybe history won't remember
you maybe we're not important enough to
be remembered but pretend like we are do
if we had to be remembered how would we
want to be remembered
act decisive with all stakers of Mind
preserve cash win for the next travel
season people said travel may never come
back it may not come back forever I said
it will come back and we're going to win
and I think the final thing is to
remember that a crisis is a terrible
opportunity to ways if you tell yourself
this is my defining moment then that
creates an optimistic mindset and that
optimism is what everyone looks to
because in a crisis the hardest thing to
you know what the hardest thing to manag
in a crisis is this is what I learned
what it's your own psychology it's not
the employees it's not the financials
it's your own psychology because if you
think you're screwed people see in your
eyes and they say well you have the most
information so we must be screwed but if
you're optimistic and that optimism is
rooted in reality some basic facts that
people still want us to exist and here's
why then that optimism is going to be
the conditions for creativity and you
damn well need creativity in a crisis
cuz in a crisis you often have like two
bad options and you sometimes want that
third path and that's what creativity is
often times in life creativity is that
third path that third road that doesn't
exist that you pave with all the
components that weren't ahead of you so
that's what we did we rallied the
company together we got in a foxhole
basically and we rebuilt the company
from the ground up we had to make some
incredibly difficult decisions we had to
reduce the size of Company by 20 uh 25%
history will always remember how you did
that I hope so and I hope they remember
it well I remember it I read it one hour
ago before you came here I read every
article about it and you were can I read
the ending of it yeah yeah yeah yeah so
I wrote this long letter when I uh when
I never thought I would and I just want
to read the ending of it because I want
to I want to um I want to I'm going to
read just the close the last three
paragraphs so I write this letter
informing the company of a layoff this
is is you know obviously very difficult
and actually in a pandemic it's pretty
traumatizing because it's uncertain
you're isolated you're by yourself maybe
and you don't know if you're laid off in
a pandemic who's hiring because the
economy slowed down and we were in a
recession so I go through this email I
write out all the benefits I'm not going
to read that whole thing I want to just
fill the gap for you though because okay
the benefits you gave I read it upstairs
the benefits you gave people were unlike
any other company did that the way you
looked after their mental health the way
you um offered to maintain their
Healthcare in the US people lose their
healthare if they lose their job I
looked at it and thought [__] H we
created an alumni directory where if you
were laid off you could opt into a
public directory we'd publish your
information and we'd Point recruiters to
your information and we ended up getting
like mil hundreds of thousands of PE
recruiters and people ended up visiting
those profiles and lot of those people
got rehired I was even calling
CEOs and I I remember this is how want
to be remembered I only remember that
when I'm imp Peril we're in our darkest
hour I'm not just worrying about how we
will survive I'm trying to call CEOs of
other companies to see if they can hire
our people but I want to I want to read
you what you made a long-term decision
in that moment yeah it's so clear well I
asked how do I want to be remembered
CFOs wouldn't have made like I'm not
saying CFOs in general but Finance
focused data people would never have
made those decisions it's nothing yeah
and the lesson is isn't that Finance
isn't good or data isn't good it's that
making CI solely on a financial basis
yeah yeah are usually not good Finance
is an input I appreciate my CFO and the
finance team I every be more than I ever
have before before the pandemic before
the pandemic I did not have nearly as
healthy relation my CFO I saw them as
somebody trying to control me and say no
to me and once the pandemic heard I said
thank God they're constraints but you
should never only make a decision based
on Purely financial reasons
so I end the letter and here's what I
said as I've learned these past eight
weeks a price crisis brings you clarity
about what is truly important though
you've been through a whirlwind some
things are more clear to me than ever
before first I'm thankful for everyone
here at airb B throughout this harrowing
experience I've been inspired by all of
you even the worst of circumstances I've
seen the very best in you the world
needs human connection now more more
than ever and I know that arban be will
rise to the occasion because and I
believe this because I believe in you
second I have a deep feeling of love for
all of you our mission is not merely
about travel when we started Airbnb our
original tagline was travel like a human
the human part was always more important
in the travel part what we're about is
belonging and at the center of belonging
is love to those of you staying one of
the most important ways we can honor
those who are leaving is for them to
know that their contributions
mattered and that they will always be a
part of Arab and B's history I'm
confident their work will live on just
like this Mission will live on to those
leaving I am truly sorry please know
this is not your fault the world will
never stop seeking the qualities and
talents that you brought to
Airbnb that helped make Airbnb
I want to thank you from the bottom of
my heart for sharing them with us
Brian that was it's a hard for you to
read that yeah yeah no now I get a
little emotional reading
that
why because of the thing I said I had a
deep feeling of love for for all of them
and even the ones I hadn't met like I
knew them through the work and I knew
how much sacrifice they made you know
the burden you have and you're a leader
and you say we should do this thing and
it turns out somebody actually does that
thing and that person who does that
thing they might
sacrifice personally so that you can do
that thing and maybe you know them and
you devop a deep bond but if you don't
know them they know you and they develop
a deep bond for you and then in the
darkest of hours in your dark hour it's
their dark hour and you tell them that
we can't be together anymore and that's
difficult and imagine breaking up with
somebody now imagine breaking up with
2,500 people or 2,000 people it's very
difficult and I don't I sometimes some
people think don't get emotionally
involved it clouds your decision-making
I would say the opposite I get I say get
as emotionally involved as possible so
you understand the consequent decisions
and now try to make a decision but
seeing the entire picture the emotions
the financials the strategy you're a
whole person bring all of it into the
place that letter was one of the most
defining moments of my life in my
career and something remarkable happened
right after that
letter I got hundreds of thank you
letters from people who were laid off it
was the
most unexpected one of the most
unexpected things in my life and I think
what they were thanking me for wasn't
just
the you know the benefits we gave I did
say something I said we have great
people in other companies be lucky to
have them in other words people had even
when they got laid off had to have
dignity and dignity required me to
elevate them and remind people that
these people are really good and if I
said people they're really good other
people might want to hire them and the
last thing is that I think many people
just thank me because they felt like we
had created a a very special place that
a special place in their heart
and many of them said we still want
Airbnb to exist because there's no
company quite like it and doesn't mean
we're better than everyone else but it
means like every person we're a little
bit different there's something
different about us and those that left
that remained at
Airbnb I think after that letter I think
they came to work even harder and
something happened after that those that
remained 4,900 of
Us Against All Odds on zoom in the
middle of a pandemic mic we rebuild the
company for the ground up we reorganize
every part of the company we rebuild all
the products we redo How We Do marketing
we then we then then something
miraculous happens our business starts
recovering because people start getting
in cars and staying in airbnbs like a
tank of gas away and then our Bankers
who put our IPO on hold say you should
dust off the
S1 and then we decide to go public
and we go public at a valuation that
probably valued at 4850 billion and by
the time within an hour of opening we're
a hundred billion
doll
and the a huge amount of the text
message emails I got weren't just
current employees were former employees
some of the ones that were laid off or
people I'd been along the journey with
it was the most unbelievable seven or
eight months
of my life and by the end of it I
remember saying I'm I think I was 39 at
that point I said I'm 39 going on
59 because I've lived like 20 years this
year and I think that's the moment I
really grew up how did you feel in that
moment your company's worth a hundred
billion dollars it's ipoed how does it
feel I had a lot of
feelings mostly great feelings and some
sadness sadness a little bit I'd say it
was
70% pride and exaltation and sense of
accomplishment and I think why is I
think obvious I think the more
insightful thing is the it wasn't I
wasn't sad in the IPO or post I was
mostly happy but I had 20 30% sadness in
a part of me and it emerged after the
high of the IPO started going down and
then I went about my daily life cuz the
IPO is December 10th and December 17th
and December 20th and January 1st and
January 10th and you know what
happened the thing that shocked me was
my life dayto day was exactly like it
was before the IPO it was as if nothing
had happened the IPO and us being a
public company mostly existed in my head
as a Consciousness yes we were now
public and yes we now had a quarterly
earnings report but like I'd wake up on
Monday and nothing was really different
and the point of the story is that if
your goal was to be public so you could
say you're a public CEO you made people
all this money you became a public it's
kind of like saying I became a doctor I
won this gold star I did this
thing these things have Merit they're
great to accumulate but they're not
going to fill you the way you think they
will the thing that's going to fill you
is not what you achieve it's going to be
what you do every single day if you do
things you love and you soundself be
people you love you're probably going to
be happy as long as you don't take those
things for granted and if you isolate
yourself doing things that are painful
or you don't love or you do but along
the way you don't make time for people
that you love then you might not be
happy why is it so simple I don't know
but that seems to be the case you talked
about your professional low moment being
the pandemic your personal low moment
over the last 15 years was this leads
into it after the
IPO because
2020 was
247 and I it was the weirdest thing in
2020 people I would get a lot of
condolence messages before the IPO like
before when we were down and out I would
get condolences I'm so sorry I feel for
you and people felt bad for me but I
wasn't unhappy at that point I was on
adrenaline I was working 24/7 and I
wasn't at least professionally lonely
because 24/7 I was in constant contact
I'm in the phone with my board members
my executive team my employees I'm on
this rush I have a purpose maybe I'm
totally isolated maybe I'm totally
disconnected from friends but I'm like
I'm like in the I'm I'm in the field of
battle so I'm not thinking about that
and it's okay that I have time for that
cuz we're Sheltering in place and
everyone's working and I don't feel like
there's not something I'm not getting
like of course and then we become aund
billion company we go public we're no
longer in crisis suddenly I have
weekends free I have evenings free I can
choose to fill with work but I know I
don't have to and that
moment that's when I don't have the rush
the same level rush I don't have the
adrenaline I'm at the top of a mountain
and now I say what do I do now and who
do I do it with and that was that moment
of I isolation that I've been working
for a year and a half from probably
March
of 2020 to like May June July August or
some general period of
2021 and I was working basically 16
hours a day seven days a week I knew it
was a singular period in my life I don't
regret a minute having done it I'm
thankful I did not have like profession
personal responsibilities like a family
at that point and I could dedicate I
don't want to do that again if I don't
have to but I wouldn't do anything
different about that period of my life
but the moment that period ended this
deep sadness came in because now I'm
like well I can't just keep filling it
with work and that's when I realized
that I can I don't want to say like like
overly and I want to say I design my
personal life but I can I what I could
do is design how I spend my time I can
be intentional and I can be intentional
about spending time with people that I
love and people I care about and that's
when I started reaching back out to
people and that became the beginning of
everything that would changed how I felt
personally how are you doing on that
front on the personal front I still
struggle with it I I can't say I don't
struggle I'm doing much better I've made
so much progress um I feel pretty
healthy like I exercise pretty regularly
um so I'm like pretty healthy I don't
really drink alcohol very often ever um
so I'm pretty healthy on the friend side
actually this a funny story when I was
turning 40 I had I was going to throw a
big birthday party and then because of
Co I think it was the Delta strain or uh
I end up not throwing a giant party
having a small party but for the first
time in life I had to write who all my
friends are because I had to inv send an
invite list and I never it's kind of
like when if you're like going to get
married people have to create an invite
a wedding list and maybe in your life
you've never written who all your
friends are why would you
and the crazy thing is as I wrote a list
of my friends I started realizing how
many I hadn't kept up with and so then I
literally went down the list of like
dozens and dozens of friends and now I'm
pretty disciplined about staying
connected to people about romantic
relationships I've I've had I've I was
in two relationships over the course of
9 years they were very long
relationships so I spent most of my 30s
in two very long relationships um I'm
single now and um I've dated some but it
that's probably something I need to make
more time for and it's definitely like
more complicated for me today than it
was when I was um in my early 30s like
you know is it hard for someone like you
to meet someone I think the part that's
like kind of interesting is
like it yes and know I think you have a
lot of like you encounter a lot of
people and you have a lot of access but
at the same time like you know there's a
pretty big infrastructure around me and
my life is like pretty structured and
organized and there's not maybe as much
spontaneity like I'm not just going to
like bump into somebody at the grocery
store as frequently as I used to like
not to say that's where you meet
somebody but you know what I'm saying
like there's a little less spontaneity
it's definitely not the easiest it's not
the easiest thing but I'm not sure it
ever is easy I think there's always this
happens St that occurs so you know I I
kind of said like my job isn't to like
try to find somebody my job is to it's
kind of like I think I wonder finding a
partner is similar to finding what you
want to do with your life some people
say follow your like follow your passion
and I always say what if you don't know
what your passion
is I think the better thing is to follow
your curiosity but your curiosity is
something you must actively participate
in you must actively put yourself out
there in situations to discover what you
love what you love and who you love and
be opened and be openminded knowing that
you might not predict what you want and
that you might not have a type because
to have a type is to be so prescriptive
that you think you know exactly what you
want well if you knew exactly what you
want you'd probably already have it you
said a second ago the vision really
actually starts with the founder you've
gone through a lot of personal changes
over the last couple of years um and
that's sort of inspired the next chapter
of Airbnb it seems about connection and
being more than just uh people renting
out their their houses what is that next
chapter for
Airbnb so I think when people see
Airbnb on the surface they see homes
most of those homes are empty and the
reason you book them is because you can
save money maybe you can live like a
local um you can have these really cool
memorable vacations but you know it's
it's it's a it's a it's a
space and I think that the center of
gravity of Airbnb over time I like to
shift from the
space to the
people I think at the end of the day
we're not just a service we're not just
a product I think what I'd like every to
become is more of a community more of
like a Global Travel community and I
think in that Community I imagine that
everyone will have this really robust
profile and it with with this Rich
identity system so we know who everyone
is and everyone knows who everyone else
is which I think is the foundation of
trust the profiles are really rich with
public
information and personal information
like
preferences and you come to Airbnb not
just to find a space but because Airbnb
the app the brand the company you feel
like it really knows you and understands
who you are and really what you want and
maybe initially for travel but
eventually you could go beyond travel
and then our job as the app the brand
the company is to be like the ultimate
host and what a host does like what does
a host a dinner party do they don't just
offer you food they like oh hey like
meet John meet Sally like meet meet each
other and
so so you can you can start to connect
people to places homes experiences
service all different types of things
and that we can use great design in the
latest technology to really be able to
match and connect people all over the
world and if we're
successful then you know I think we can
push against this dark cloud of you know
loneliness that has been you know
casting anything Shadows over Society
all over the world I mean literally
right before this I was at I the reason
I'm in a dress shirt I took my jacket
off was I was at 10 Downing Street but I
wasn't meaning the Prime Minister I was
meeting some of his um members of his
staff including the minister of
loneliness they have a minister of
loneliness the fact that the United
Kingdom needs to have a minister of
loneliness and probably many countries
do tells us that it's not just older
people that are lonely in fact some of
the lonliest people in the world are
teenagers this is crazy and why is this
it's because the mall is now Amazon the
theater is now Netflix the office is now
Zoom it's not the fault of any of these
things I think these are all great
inventions I I I I had this Vision once
like what is my purpose at a
professional level at the most
fundamental level is to help bring
people together that's kind of what we
do at Airbnb the most FAL level maybe we
bring you together with your friends to
travel maybe you bring you people
together people from other cultures
you've never met before if we can bring
people together I think we can reinforce
these two core ideas that we've had
since the day we started the first is we
believe people are basically
fundamentally good
like children most children are good you
you were born creative curious
open-minded loving for the most part I
think that we have the ability for
goodness in outside of us and the other
thing is I think you I think you said
this in the beginning of our discussion
people are basically 99.9% the same in
fact Genetically speaking that we know
that's true and the thing I'm surprised
by is not how different we are as I
travel the world it's how similar I am
we are and that 0.1% that makes us all
difference we might call that diversity
and culture and Heritage and can we use
all these different words to describe
that
0.1% but as you spend time with those
people you're going to realize the
shared Humanity we have and if we
believe that 99.9% of people were the
same then it would be really hard to
hate someone else because how could you
hate someone that's 0.1% different than
you that would seem kind of pointless
and then suddenly you would find this
common Bond so that's kind of at a
conceptual level where I'd like us to go
I'm not saying that's who we are yeah
but that's saying at a conceptual level
where I'd like us to go the direction of
travel the direction of travel and maybe
even one day beyond travel no no pun
intended exactly oh I like that Brian we
have a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're going to leave the question for
oh my God so they've left this in the
the official diary of the CEO for
you there's a question we are often
asked that we
usually gloss over or lie about on a
frequent
basis will you answer this question and
answer honestly the question
is how are
you I would
say the feeling that I have right now is
one of feeling
loved because the last you know this
journey I've been on has been so intense
and by the way like I this isn't the
first podcast I talked about this stuff
I was on a couple
others and after I started talking about
this I had a lot of people in my life
who I love who reached out to me and
it's been a basis for some
connections and what I've realized is I
was never as lone as I thought I was and
I had so many more people in my life
than I realized and they loved me more
than I ever knew it's kind of funny we
often wait till after people die to tell
them how much we love them at these like
Services hoping maybe they're
watching and sometimes there's a
reminder that we should tell them how we
feel about them while they're still
alive and I've gotten the benefit of
people telling me that and I've been
able to tell them
that I had a cold and I sometimes I I
have these temporary feelings of I'm a
little bit like like a little tired here
and there but those feelings come and go
and the feelings that stick with you are
like really basic feelings and I think
the most important feeling that I have
is love and it's and I make my best
decisions when I'm feeling that because
that love is like the light and that's
like a it's like a true north
star and and that's how I'm feeling
right now and Al also the more I think
about it the more I let it
in the better it feels and the more it's
it's
true Brian thank you thank you very much
um you are I mean you are one of a kind
that's for sure and you're one of a kind
in the most important ways because you
know those people that are different
that think differently that see the
world differently that are able to go
back to First principles and design a
new world and believe in the ability for
us to design a new world end up doing
that and just from sitting here with you
over the last two two hours whatever
it's been I I see someone who has the
potential to do exactly that design a
new and better world and also believes
in it and in doing so inspires others to
believe that that's possible too that is
a truly special thing I've interviewed a
lot of people not everybody has that but
you're born with it and the cost of that
so clearly to me is the feeling of being
different yes um it's also probably a
struggle to form Connections in other
ways where other people might do it so
seamlessly yeah but from a societal
perspective the sacrifice you make in
being different
is one that Society will owe you for
long after you're gone and it's a and
it's a worthy worthy sacrifice it's a
truly worthy sacrifice because if there
was ever a time as you said with the
lonely Nar that Theresa May appointed
that we needed someone to be thinking
about bringing people together and
designing a new world as you tried to
when you're a young boy it is now so
thank you well thank you so much for
having me here this has been an
incredible
[Music]
conversation
oh